Another really useful module that you might use.
Actually quite often in your programming career is the date time module and as the name suggests it
allows us to manipulate date values which is really really useful.
So let me just show you quickly how that would work I can say from date time and in here.
Well there is a ton of functionality but you can do simple things like date time dot time and give it
in here some options.
Oh and make sure I import here like that.
So that now if I look at time print here if I click Run I get a time of zero but if I in here let's
say I do the time is five forty five and let's say two seconds if I click Run
I get five forty five and two seconds I get the time so I can create time objects here which is really
really nice another useful one is the date and date gives us some really useful things like today hey
what's today well today.
Hint hint.
This is what I'm recording this video so I get a date object that I can now use.
Which is really useful maybe a user signs up for your startup and you want to make sure that when they
sign up you want to keep track of what day they started on.
Maybe they got a membership and it expires in 30 days.
Well we can use the daytime module to keep track of that and there's lots of things that we can do with
dates as you can imagine there's things like time zones and different time data that we can manipulate.
Very very useful.
I almost forgot this one but remember when we built our decorator our performance decorator that measures
how long of a time a function takes.
Well we used a module here didn't we.
And this is another one of my favorite modules.
It's the time module and we can use it.
Well like this it tells us the time and we can use two instances of the time to essentially figure out
what the difference between the time instances are again and now they're really useful one.
All right.
I think we have time for one more because these videos could last forever.
I could just keep showing you these.
But like I said these are modules that you're going to use whenever a need arises.
You're going to start googling and find out hey I need to get date information.
Well you're going to start googling and find out that there's a date module or there's a date pi package.
All right.
The last one is called an array and we have an array package that we can use from what the array module
now in here.
What is an array.
And this is something that I may have mentioned because lists in Python are sometimes called arrays
and other languages but there are a little bit different.
You see lists in Python are what we call just dynamic that is any time we need data into a list we can
make it as big as we want.
We can just incrementally increase this list and fill up our memory.
And we've seen that before when we tried to let's say print out a massive list arrays that Python gives
us actually take up less memory and perform faster.
So if you have a large list and let's say you don't want to use generators you can improve it with an
array and that is because when we create an array it sets how much memory we can use in our machine.
Now this is a pretty big computer science topic.
You can learn about arrays online or something why other courses.
But for now the way we would use it is like this we'd say array and we first have to give it a type
code.
So a type code with an array is what type of data is this array going to hold.
And this is part of the optimization by telling it what type of data we're going to hold.
The memory is better used.
So for example if I go to the array
module in here you see that we have different type codes and if I wanted let's say an integer.
So that is if I want a signed end or maybe I want to float and usually we want something like a signed.
And so this is a python integer and it shows you what the minimum size in bytes is.
But let's say we want small numbers so I can say hey the type code is going to be I it's going to be
a signed integer and then I'm just going to give it one two three.
So now if I have an array like this and I print array if I click Run.
There you go.
We have an array but I can access it just like I would a list very very cool.
And this is a little bit more performing than lists.
Again if you don't want to use generators if you have a massive list this is a quick easy way to optimize
your code.
The possibilities are endless.
There are so many packages that we can use so many built in tools.
The key thing is searching for it and looking for it when the problem arises.
But there's no way that you can memorize all of these as you progressed through your career.
There'll be certain ones that keep coming up that you'll just get used to but you just have to trust
me on this.
This is one of those things that just comes with experience and as you code more and more so the best
way to learn these is to just keep coding.
I'll see you in the next one.
But by.